[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So
this stuff was already here for you.
I talked a little bit about body parts and
how we need it to be able to post
things and put things to our server.
Lodash is just a utility library,
very similar to under score.
Don't need it,
it's just nice to have this stuff.
I also talked about this syntax share
the app.use we're gonna talk a little bit
more about it after lunch
when we get into middleware.
But it's just a way for us to register
middleware on an application level.
Because this object right here,
app, is our web application.
When we say .use, what's really
happening in the background is this.
There's like an array somewhere,
appMiddleware.
It's a stack and
every time we say app.use,
it pushes in the function that
we're passing into this array.
So express.static is a function that
actually returns another function.
So it's returning a function
that looks like this.
We're gonna get into middleware as well,
I just want to give you some context.
It's just returning a function that
has a request, a response, and
this next function right here.
I'm not gonna talk about the next,
but that's all it's doing.
And eventually there's just tons
of these functions inside of here.
It's a stack of middleware and
it runs them in order of registration
whenever a request comes in.
So that means when we do a get request
like /Lions, the first thing that request
does is it runs through this middleware,
then it runs through this middleware,
then it runs through this middleware and
then finally it comes here.
So that's what's happening
when I say app.use.
So every request that comes to application
will run through all these functions first
before they actually go to where
they ended up being registered.
So that's global middleware.
Again, I have a whole section that's
talking about this so we'll get into it.
So you can save your questions until then,
but I just wanna give you some context.
So and then we just have our database
here, which is just an array.
And I put this ID right here.
If you notice when you start creating
stuff you actually need an ID,
because you looked at our notes for
our blueprint all lines have an id.
>> Speaker 1: So I put that ID there so
you can increment it every
time you create a new line.
It starts off as zero every
time you make a new increment.
>> Speaker 1: So as far as the get,
or the get all is what I like to say.
Because we're getting all the lines.
It's just simple as saying res.JSON lines.
That one was pretty easy,
you just send back all the lines.
Just send back the array.
Again if you look at the blue print,
that's what it says.
It says send back an array of objects.
That's it those objects are the lines.
That may or may not be in there,
when we call it.
But it's definitely an array and
that's where the lines will be.
So the next one is the get one by ID.
So the way we did that,
I'm just using low dash here it's
a quick utility method to find
any object in the lions array that has
an ID property who's ID matches this ID.
So req.params.
Params is an object on the request
that I talked about earlier that
gives us access to the actual parameters
on the URL by the name we define them as.
Because I put ID here,
the way I reference it on the request
object is with the same name.
So if I change this from ID to like,
thing then it will be thing here, too.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So for mine,
ID came in as a string.
>> Speaker 1: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: With low dash,
does it automatically parse the int?
Or.
>> Speaker 1: Nope, it does not.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 1: So
there's two ways around that.
One, you have to parse int on find.
So you'd have to put parse int right here.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Or
you would only set the ID as a string.
You would increment it first and then
set it as a string, which is what I did.
>> Speaker 2: You would increment it
first and then set it as a string.
>> Speaker 1: So like right here,
so I first increment the ID
which takes it from whatever
number it is to one more, right?
And then I set lion.id equal
to ID plus the string.
So I'm coercing the number to a string
by adding it to a different string.
>> Speaker 2: So
how does that work in the route above?
>> Speaker 1: This, so
this is a get request.
So when this comes back in,
this ID's already a string,
because I set it as a string on the post.
All right so, let me walk you through it.
>> Speaker 2: You're saving
all your lions as strings now.
>> Speaker 1: Yes,
yeah they're all strings.
>> Speaker 2: Gotcha.
>> Speaker 1: They're
never saved as a number.
>> Speaker 2: They're
>> Speaker 1: I use a number for
the ID, but
then I immediately coerce it to a string.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, that makes sense.
>> Speaker 1: So yeah, so then I just
say res.json lion, or an empty object.
You don't have to put
the empty object here.
Whatever you want for your API.
You could just put undefined or whatever.
>> Speaker 1: But, empty object is
probably not the best thing to put there.
Because then you have to check to see if
the object is empty on the front end.
So it's probably not the best thing.
And then post.
If you look at the blueprint that we made.
Go back to it.
It should create and return a new line,
using the posted object as a line.
So first thing that we need to do
is get the reference to the new
line that we're trying to
create that we posted.
And that's going to be on req.body and
that's because
I left some notes on the body part
that says anything that we post or
put to the server will be available via
req.body and that's what the line is.
It's whatever we post to
the server using AJAX.
Whatever that object is that's req.body.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: So
my req.body came in as JSON,
is that some magic that
express is doing for me.
>> Speaker 1: It's a couple things, so
one, I'm using on the front end I'm using
the window.fetch polyfill which is
a new thing inside the browser.
So the browser's are getting
rid of XHR requests or AJAX.
They're get rid of or is it HX,
they're getting rid of that,
XHTML HTTP requests and
are doing fetch instead.
So window.fetch is the new HX.
>> Speaker 2: So
it's just a different method name.
>> Speaker 1: It actually uses HX on
the inside but it has a promise API.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 1: So
you did like .fetch .then,
it is that stuff.
So that's what I'm using and
that one will take an object,
convert it to JSON and send it.
And then request our
Express does the opposite.
It will take the JSON and
convert it back to an object by
the time it gets back to you.
So by the time you access req.body,
it's a JavaScript object It
was created as, actually I'll show you the
source code so you can see the full stuff.
And app.js is just a crazy file.
Look, where is it at?
Where is it at?
>> Speaker 2: So its sent is type JSON.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, here's the object.
Yeah.
This is the object that gets sent.
It's an object,
it's got a name, a prior age,
a gender property on it that I got
from the form and then when I send it.
>> Speaker 1: Right here I say object is
JSON and I'm like stringifying it just in
case even though I think window.fetch
does it for you either way.
It's a new standard so I didn't really
know how to stringified it anyway.
Yeah, I stringified it, and then express
it the opposite, it parsed it, and
attached it to req.body.
>> Speaker 2: If we didn't have that
header, it would have been text.
>> Speaker 1: This header?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: I'm not too
sure how window.fetch works.
It might assume that it's already JSON.
It's probably smart enough to do that,
I imagine.
But if not, it doesn't hurt.
But, yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Where was I?
Yeah, here we go.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, so we did the line
on req.body because that's whatever
we attach to the body.
I increment the ID by one and then I
set the lions ID equal to that ID but
of course it's a string as we
talked about earlier because as you
could imagine you have a problem.
If this was a number but
it's actually req.params.id would actually
be a string even though we set
this as a number down here.
Because we convert it to JSON and
take it back, it's still a number.
And then lodash would fail because it's
like there is no thing with a ID of
number one.
There's something with the ID of
string one, so it would break.
So that's why I coerce it to a string.
And then I just add the lion to
our database, push it in there.
And then I send the lion back because
we're expecting it to come back,
right because if I don't get that back,
I'll show you what happens.
>> Speaker 1: So if I don't get that
back we're going to have some problems.
So say I come in here and
I make a lion, Simba,
Lion King,
I give him an age,
he's male, and I hit submit.
You see how it posted on the page here.
That's because the service
sent me that back.
But if it didn't send me that back,
it's was like okay.
Thanks.
I created it.
Then I would have never have been able to
post this new thing on a page on create.
Then I would have to ask for it.
I would be like okay, dot then on side of
the client, then give me the lion back.
It would be an additional request,
you see what I mean,
I would have to do another
request just to get it back.
I can just get it back
on the same request.
That's why it's important to send back
the resources you created on post, right?
So, to illustrate that again.
If I go in, and I got.
If I was just like, res.end.
Which I think we can still do in Express.
If I just did that,
which restarted the server.
Now I come in here and I do this again,
>> Speaker 1: And I submit and, nothing.
I actually got an error,
unexpected end of input.
So it's important to send back that
resource, because if you created it,
you're probably going to need it,
so just send it back.